.. _release-notes_0.5:

***********
Version 0.5
***********


Whats new?
----------
Organization of the package has changed. All implemented logic is rewritten in functions.

The package now consist of several submodules that group the function by the
concept:

- cell
- constants
- crystal
- io
- visualization
- geometry

The classes that were the central piece of the package prior to the version ``0.5`` are
removed.

This global change is motivated by the uncalled complexity of code maintenance and
structure. Prior to version 0.5.0 wulfric was build around Atom, Crystal, Lattice and
Kpoints classes, therefore to use even some simple function one had to create an instance
of the class. Moreover, some operations were performed silently inside the classes, that
may affect the user experience in unexpected way.

Starting with 0.5.0 wulfric is build as a set of tools, therefore it is build around
functions, that performed an isolated task. Only one class is defined at the time of
release 0.5.0 ``Kpoints``. All other capabilities are implemented in a form of a function.
Kpoints class is kept as it is proven to be a convenient interface for handling of kpoints.

Now wulfric uses well know structure to store data:

- |array-like|_ to store matrix of a cell
- Plain python dictionary to store a set of atoms.
- A pair of cell and atoms constitutes a crystal, no special structure is defined for it.

0.5.0
-----
The changes that are described and

- Unified and improved handling of finite precision. Starting from this version there are
  two conceptual tolerance parameters: ``angle_tolerance`` and ``length_tolerance``.
  The former describe accuracy of angular variables (in degrees), the latter describe
  accuracy for the length variables (length of lattice vectors, for example). Default
  values are chose in the context of solid state physics with angles in degrees and length
  in Angstroms.
- New function ``ensure_000()`` that change atoms with their translational equivalent
  copies to ensure that all atoms of the crystal structure are located within the volume
  of the (0, 0, 0) unit cell.
- Internal structure of the package is updated. All functions are grouped in modules with
  only a few being available as top-level functions. New structure is clear and allows
  exploration of the package in the interactive python console.
- Relax dependency from ``numpy~=1.26`` to ``numpy``. It was initially restricted because
  of problems with doctests. The problems are resolved.

0.5.1
-----

Add :py:func:`wulfric.crystal.ensure_unique_names`.


0.5.2
-----

Add optional |Syntactic-sugar|_ for the dictionaries:

* :py:func:`wulfric.add_sugar`
* :py:func:`wulfric.remove_sugar`

0.5.3
-----

Add optional :py:func:`wulfric.geometry.get_spherical`.

0.5.4
-----

* Fix a bug with the ``wulfric -v``
* Refine value of ``_limit`` in :py:func:`.lepage`
* Fix :issue:`7`
